\" -*-nroff-*-
.BG
.FN discrim
.TL
Canonical Discriminant Analysis
.CS
discrim(data, labs, dims=length(unique(labs)) - 1, transform=NULL, verbose=F)
.RA
.AG data
A multidimensional data matrix. 
.AG labs
A vector of labels, parallel to `data'.
.OA
.AG dims
The number of transformed dimensions to be returned. The maximum is one
less than the number of dimensions in `data'.
.AG transform
The result of a previous call to discrim. This can be used to transform
a second data set according to the eigenvector/eigenvalues determined
from a training data set.  
.AG verbose
If TRUE, a commentary is printed. 
.RT
If `transform' is supplied the data is transformed according to the
eigenvector/eigenvalues in that tranform and a matrix of data is
returned.  If no transform is supplied, the result has the following
components: 
.RC data
The transformed data, a matrix with the same number of rows as `data'
and `dims' columns. 
.RC variates
The eigenvectors of the transformation. 
.RC values
The eigenvalues of the transformation
.DT
(Taken from the unix man page for cda): 

Canonical discriminant analysis takes a set of grouped points in a
high dimesional space and determines the components such that points
within a group form tight clusters.  These points are called the
canonical variates and are labeled 0-(n-1) where n is the
dimensionality of the space (i.e.  the number of hidden units). The
original points can be projected on to these vectors. The result is a
low dimensional plot which has clustered the points belonging to each
group.
 
The method for finding the  canonical  variates  is  divided into 3
steps: 
 
(1) finding the within-sum-of-squares and  the  between-sum-of-squares
matrices 
 
(2) finding the eigenvectors (x)  [the  canonical  variates] and
eigenvalues (@) [the canonical values] which satisfy the equation:
.Cs
      Bx =  @Wx 
.Ce
where B is the between-sum-of-squares matrix and W is the
within-sum-of-squares matrix. The canonical variate with the greatest
canonical value corresponds to the direction in which the ratio of the
between-group distance to the within-group distance is maximised.
 
(3) projecting each of the initial  input  points  onto  the canonical
variates. 

.SH REFERENCES
The unix man page for `cda'. 
.SA
`prcomp'
.EX
.KW mu
.WR
